# PSXGame

This is a template for a Playstation 1 game built using [PSn00bSDK](https://github.com/Lameguy64/PSn00bSDK).
It has been optimized to run and build on Linux (it also has a few targets
that allow you to build Docker without directly installing any dependencies).

It is loosely based on the project structure of [Sonic XA](https://luksamuk.itch.io/sonic-the-hedgehog-xa) ([see source code here](https://github.com/luksamuk/engine-psx)), a fangame for the PlayStation 1.

## About this template

This template assumes that you have PSn00bSDK installed on your Linux system
under `/opt/psn00bsdk`, and the Makefile does all the heavy lifting of
leveraging environment variables and such.

Furthermore, it configures the CMake project to use Unix Makefiles instead
of Ninja, and is also ready for running the project with PCSX-Redux (which
must be on your PATH).

There is also a `.dir-locals.el` file which makes this project ready to be
used with Emacs and Flycheck, and also registers a DAP debugger for
`gdb-multiarch`, under the name "PSX Debug".

## Makefile targets

The root-level Makefile allows you to run the targets:

- `all` (or simply running `make`): Build the project and a CD image (.bin + .cue)
- `elf`: Build binary only
- `iso`: Build `elf` and CD image (.bin + .cue)
- `chd`: Build `iso`, then generate a single-file MAME disc image (.chd). Requires a tool called [`tochd`](https://github.com/thingsiplay/tochd).
- `run`: Build `iso`, then run it on PCSX-Redux.
- `configure`: Base configuration step for generating a `build` directory.
- `clean`: Remove `build` directory.
- `purge`: Same as `clean`, but also remove MAM disc image (.chd).
- `rebuild`: Force a complete rebuild of the project.

## Docker Makefile targets

There are also extra targets that work with Docker, if you don't want to
manually install PSn00bSDK. Notice that these expect you to have Docker
installed, and might be a bit more for the advanced user, even though
none of these are beginner-friendly anyway :P

I recommend never running these as root! If you're using
Linux, just add your user to the `docker` group and reboot your
computer.

- `dockerpull`: Fetches the `luksamuk/psxtoolchain:latest` image from
  DockerHub. This is a necessary step that must be run at least once for the
  following targets.
- `dockershell`: Runs `bash` within the `luksamuk/psxtoolchain` image at the
  `/source` directory (which mounts the project's source code).
- `dockerbuild`: Removes the current build directory and any .chd files, then
  attempts to build the project (both .bin + .cue and .chd). The resulting
  files might have root permissions, which you might wanna change with
  `chown`.
- `dockerpurge`: This is a helper which cleans up any artifact that might be
  generated by any means, but runs within the Docker container. Useful if you're
  having problems with permissions and don't know what to do.

## License

This template is distributed under the Mozilla Public License 2.0.

